= Getting started

The main dependencies are Ruby 1.8.x, the ZeroMQ library and the bundler gem. Once the bundler gem
is installed, bundler can be used to install the remaining dependencies using
the Gemfile in the root directory of the project. You may want to install and
use a RVM gemset. This keeps to the installed gems separated from other gems
on your system to prevent any version conflicts.

The system has not been tested on Windows, we strongly recommend using Linux or Mac OS X (if you have the developer tools installed.

== Quickstart lab machines

1. Boot the lab machine in Linux

2. Clone the repository:
    
    $ git clone git://github.com/ais-case/aisredis.git

3. Run the installer:

    $ aisredis/installer.sh

4. Now in a new terminal window, go to the ais directory.

   When asked: <tt>Do you wish to trust this .rvmrc file?</tt>,answer with 
   <tt>yes</tt>, <tt><ENTER></tt> 
 
You can now jump straight to "Running the system" to start the services

== Installation

=== Optional: setting up an environment with RVM

RVM allows you to install and run the project without conflicts with other Ruby-based
projects you might have installed. Instructions for the installation can be found at 
the {RVM website}[https://rvm.io/rvm/install/]. A quick overview of RVM installation 
and setup for this project:

1. Download and install RVM:
 
    $ curl -L get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
    
2. Load RVM into current session:

    $ source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
    
3. Download and install Ruby 1.8:

    $ rvm install 1.8.7

4. Indicate you want to use Ruby 1.8.7:

    $ rvm use 1.8.7

5. Create a separated gemset for this project:

    $ rvm gemset create aisredis
    
6. Switch to the newly created environment: 

    $ rvm use "1.8.7@aisredis"

Before you work with the project you will always have to switch to this gemset. This
can be automated by updating <tt>environment_id</tt> in a <tt>.rvmrc</tt> file of the project with the 
information about your environment. An example file is included as <tt>.rvmrc.distrib</tt>

=== Installing dependencies

The Ruby dependencies of the project are documented in the Gemfile. To install all 
dependencies, use the bundler gem:

1. Install bundler:

    $ gem install bundler
    
2. Then from inside the project directory run bundler to download and install all dependencies:

    $ bundle install

In addition to these Ruby Gems you will also need to install the ZeroMQ library available 
from http://www.zeromq.org.

== Running the system

The system consists of a redis server process and a number of separate ruby processes. 

First, start the redis server from the project root directory:

    $ ./redis-server

Then, start each of the other <tt>ais*.rb</tt>-files in separate terminal windows (or tabs):

    $ ruby aisWebserver.rb
    $ ruby aisKmlServer.rb
    $ ruby aisActive.rb
    $ ruby Msg2Ves.rb
    $ ruby Messenger.rb
    $ ruby aisSentenceServer.rb

You should now be able to access the web interface from http://localhost:3000.
